Update language in CircleCI reaction FAQ (#16473)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/agent/faq/circleci-incident-impact-on-datadog-agent.md

kind: faq
---

On January 4th, 2023, Datadog was notified by CircleCI that they were investigating a [security incident][1] that may have led to leaking of stored secrets. Datadog identified a single secret stored in CircleCI that could theoretically be misused by a potential attacker, an old RPM GNU Privacy Guard (GPG) private signing key and its passphrase. This page documents the implications of the potential leak and the measures Datadog is taking to mitigate any risks to our customers.

<div class="alert alert-info">
<strong>Note</strong>: As of January 16th, 2023, Datadog has no indication that the key was actually leaked or misused, but we are still taking the following actions out of an abundance of caution.
</div>

## The affected key

> The impacted RPM GPG signing key has the fingerprint `60A389A44A0C32BAE3C03F0B069B56F54172A230`, and is accessible in [our signing keys location][2]. This key was historically used to sign Agent 5 releases, Agent 6 releases up to (and including) v6.13.0, DogStatsD 6 releases and DogStatsD 7 releases up to (and including) v7.23.1.

Reviewer: What "DogStatsd releases" refer to is likely to be confusing to many customers. It's not a widely documented flavor of the agent (AFAIK we only document it in passing here: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/#overview). In any case, we should call it "standalone DogStatsD releases" to completely differentiate it from the Agent releases. I think we should also mention the package name for additional clarity (this might make the message a bit cluttered though). So I'd suggest the following:

```suggestion
The impacted RPM GPG signing key has the fingerprint `60A389A44A0C32BAE3C03F0B069B56F54172A230`, and is accessible in [our signing keys location][2]. This key was historically used to sign:

* Agent 5 releases and Agent 6 releases up to (and including) v6.13.0 (`datadog-agent` package)
* Standalone DogStatsD 6 releases and Standalone DogStatsD 7 releases up to (and including) v7.23.1 (`datadog-dogstatsd` package)
```

<div class="alert alert-info">

> <strong>Note</strong>: Official Datadog repositories were <strong>not</strong> compromised. The signing key, if actually leaked, could be used to construct an RPM package that looks like it is from Datadog but it would not be enough to place such a package in our official package repositories. Installing a malicious package on a system would require that the attacker has root access to the system or that they can upload the package to a repository trusted by the system.

Reviewer: I think this additional sentence adds more confusion 🤔 

An attacker with root access to a system could install absolutely everything on the system, regardless of whether a key was leaked or not, so I don't think it's relevant to even mention it. That said, I think it is relevant to say that an attacker would need to be able to upload the package to a repository _used_ by the system.

So I'd suggest the following (but I'm not even sure it's better, it might still add confusion, happy to get some more feedback on it):

```suggestion
<strong>Note</strong>: Official Datadog repositories were <strong>not</strong> compromised. The signing key, if actually leaked, could be used to construct an RPM package that looks like it is from Datadog but it would not be enough to place such a package in our official package repositories. A hypothetical attacker with the affected key would need to be able upload the constructed RPM package to a repository used by the system.
```

<div class="alert alert-info">
<strong>Note</strong>: As of January 16th, 2023, Datadog has no indication that the key was actually leaked or misused, but we are still taking the following actions out of an abundance of caution.
</div>

## The affected key

The impacted RPM GPG signing key has the fingerprint `60A389A44A0C32BAE3C03F0B069B56F54172A230`, and is accessible in [our signing keys location][2]. This key was historically used to sign:

* Agent 5 releases and Agent 6 releases up to (and including) v6.13.0 (`datadog-agent` package)
* Standalone DogStatsD 6 releases and Standalone DogStatsD 7 releases up to (and including) v7.23.1 (`datadog-dogstatsd` package)

<div class="alert alert-info">
<strong>Note</strong>: Official Datadog repositories were <strong>not</strong> compromised. The signing key, if actually leaked, could be used to construct an RPM package that looks like it is from Datadog but it would not be enough to place such a package in our official package repositories. A hypothetical attacker with the affected key would need to be able upload the constructed RPM package to a repository used by the system.
</div>

## Am I affected?

> You don't need to take any action if:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You don't need to take any action if you:
```

> * You are installing the Agent with Datadog packages on macOS, Windows, Debian/Ubuntu
> * You are using the Container Agent
> * You are on an RPM-based Linux distribution (RHEL, CentOS, Rocky Linux, AlmaLinux, Amazon Linux, SUSE/SLES, Fedora), but your system doesn't trust the affected GPG key (see below on how to check)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Install the Agent with Datadog packages on macOS, Windows, Debian/Ubuntu.
* Use the Container Agent.
* Are on an RPM-based Linux distribution (RHEL, CentOS, Rocky Linux, AlmaLinux, Amazon Linux, SUSE/SLES, Fedora), but your system doesn't trust the affected GPG key (see below on how to check).
```

### Verify installed packages

> Out of an abundance of caution, for impacted users Datadog also recommends that you verify that all packages on your system signed by the affected key were built by Datadog. You can run [this script][3] to verify that:

Reviewer: This is on a per-system basis, so maybe the following is a little clearer?

```suggestion
Out of an abundance of caution, Datadog also recommends that, on your impacted systems, you verify that all packages signed by the affected key were built by Datadog. You can run [this script][3] to verify that:
```

* If your system uses Agent 7, there is no implication. Agent 7 packages were never signed with the affected key.
* Your system will no longer be able to install Agent 6 < 6.14.0. We recommend upgrading to Agent 6 >= 6.14.0 or Agent 7.

> * If your system uses Agent 5, you will no longer be able to install Agent 5 <= 5.32.8. You will only be able to install Agent 5.32.9+, or you can upgrade to 6 >= 6.14.0 or Agent 7.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* If your system uses Agent 5, you will no longer be able to install Agent 5 <= 5.32.8. You will only be able to install Agent 5.32.9 or later, or you can upgrade to 6 >= 6.14.0 or Agent 7.
```

* We've released new versions of Agent installation methods to ensure they make systems safe by explicitly removing the affected key from the RPM database and the Datadog repo file:
  * Datadog Ansible role: [https://github.com/DataDog/ansible-datadog/][8]
    * Release [4.18.0][9] fixes the issue
  * Datadog Chef recipe: [https://github.com/DataDog/chef-datadog][10]
    * Release [4.16.0][11] fixes the issue
  * Datadog Puppet module: [https://github.com/DataDog/puppet-datadog-agent][12]
    * Release [3.20.0][13] fixes the issue
  * Datadog Saltstack formula: [https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-formula][14]
    * Release [3.5][15] fixes the issue
  * The set of Datadog Agent 6/7 Linux install scripts:
    * All the below scripts were released to the below locations with version 1.13.0 at 13:00 UTC on January 12th, 2023
    * [https://s3.amazonaws.com/dd-agent/scripts/install_script_agent6.sh][16]
    * [https://s3.amazonaws.com/dd-agent/scripts/install_script_agent7.sh][17]

>     * [https://s3.amazonaws.com/dd-agent/scripts/install_script.sh][18] (this one is deprecated and no longer recommended to use, but we will update it as well)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    * [https://s3.amazonaws.com/dd-agent/scripts/install_script.sh][18] (this one is deprecated and no longer recommended to use, but we have updated it as well)
```

* If your system uses Agent 7, there is no implication. Agent 7 packages were never signed with the affected key.
* Your system will no longer be able to install Agent 6 < 6.14.0. We recommend upgrading to Agent 6 >= 6.14.0 or Agent 7.

> * Your system will no longer be able to install DogStatsD 6 and DogStatsD < 7.24.0. We recommend upgrading to DogStatsD >= 7.24.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Your system will no longer be able to install Standalone DogStatsD 6 and Standalone DogStatsD < 7.24.0 (`datadog-dogstatsd` packages). We recommend upgrading to Standalone DogStatsD >= 7.24.0.
```
